# COMP6721 Mini projects

## Mini-Project 1

For the movements, I used the following definition:

We move the blank tile; for example, UP means "move the blank tile UP" 
(and exchange it with the numbered tile right above it)

### Running the program

The "root" package contains the Main class, which is the entry point used to execute the program. 
A user can either enter numbers to create a puzzle, or run the program with the argument "random" to have solve a 
randomly generated Puzzle. In any case, the puzzle will be solved using the Depth-First Search algorithm, 
then Best-First Search algorithm with three heuristics described in section 2, and A* using the same three heuristics.


The size of the puzzle can be configured by modifying the ROW_SIZE and COL_SIZE constants of the Puzzle class. 
By default, puzzles have a dimension of 3 by 5 and are represented using a 2D array. 
Puzzles keep track of their parent to generate the solution path and for the g(n) evaluation in the A* algorithm.

Since we want to run all the algorithms and not to be blocked by a long resolution, the Main class has a configurable 
timeout before it tries a new algorithm, SECONDS_BEFORE_TIMEOUT. It is set to 5 seconds by default, but it can be changed.

The solution trace generated by the solvers is available in the "results" folder as .txt files. 
Their generation and writing is handled by the FileUtil class.

Benchmarks can be run from the Benchmark class. SECONDS_BEFORE_TIMEOUT and NUMBER_OF_PUZZLES can be configured.